README.md, before:

# RecipeLens

RecipeLens is a Next.js web application designed to help you find recipes using the ingredients you already have. Simply upload a photo of your ingredients or add them manually, and let our AI suggest delicious recipes you can make!

## Core Features

-   **Google Authentication:** Securely log in using your Google account.
-   **Ingredient Identification via Photo:** Upload a photo of your ingredients, and the AI will identify them for you.
-   **Manual Ingredient Input:** Easily add or remove ingredients from your list.
-   **Recipe Generation:** Get recipe suggestions based on the ingredients you've listed.
-   **Modern User Interface:** Clean and user-friendly interface built with Shadcn/ui and Tailwind CSS.

## Technologies Used

-   Next.js (App Router)
-   TypeScript
-   Tailwind CSS
-   Shadcn/ui
-   Lucide React Icons
-   Firebase Authentication (Google Sign-In)
-   Genkit AI (for ingredient identification and recipe generation)
-   React Hook Form (Implicitly via Shadcn/ui)
-   Zod (for schema validation)

## Getting Started

1.  **Clone the repository:**

    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd <repository-directory>
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Set up your environment variables:**

    Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory and add your Google Generative AI API key and Firebase configuration:

    ```env
    # Genkit AI Key
    GOOGLE_GENAI_API_KEY=YOUR_GENAI_API_KEY

    # Firebase Configuration (Required for Authentication)
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY=YOUR_FIREBASE_API_KEY
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=YOUR_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=YOUR_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=YOUR_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=YOUR_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_APP_ID=YOUR_FIREBASE_APP_ID
    ```

    *Note: Ensure you have access to a Google AI model compatible with Genkit (like Gemini) and have set up Firebase Authentication with Google provider enabled.*

4.  **Run the development server:**

    You need two terminals for development: one for the Next.js app and one for the Genkit AI flows.

    *Terminal 1: Run Next.js App*
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```
    *Important: Make sure you have stopped and restarted the server after editing `.env.local`.*

    *Terminal 2: Run Genkit Dev Server (listens for AI flow calls)*
    ```bash
    npm run genkit:dev
    # Or use genkit:watch for auto-reloading on AI flow changes
    # npm run genkit:watch
    ```

    Open [http://localhost:9002](http://localhost:9002) (or the port specified in `package.json`) in your browser to see the application. The Genkit UI (for inspecting flows) usually runs on [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

## How to Use

1.  **Login:** Access the application. If you are not logged in, you will be redirected to the login page. Click "Sign in with Google" and follow the prompts.
2.  **Upload a Photo:** Once logged in, on the main page, click the file input under "Analyze Ingredients Photo" to select or take a photo of your ingredients using your device's camera or photo library.
3.  **Analyze:** After selecting a photo, click "Analyze Photo". The AI will identify ingredients from the image and add them to the "Your Ingredients" list.
4.  **Add/Remove Manually:** Type an ingredient in the input box under "Your Ingredients" and click the "+" button or press Enter. Remove ingredients by clicking the "X" next to them.
5.  **Generate Recipes:** Once you have your desired ingredients listed, click "Find Recipes".
6.  **View Recipes:** The AI-generated recipes will appear on the right side, including titles, ingredient lists, and instructions.
7.  **Sign Out:** Click the logout icon in the header to sign out of your account.

Commit message:

remake the login page into a landing page, but still keep the google login button. the landing page will explain what app is this, the features and benefits, and how to use it. after that update README.md to reflect the current app

README.md, after:

# RecipeLens

RecipeLens is a Next.js web application designed to help you find recipes using the ingredients you already have. Simply upload a photo of your ingredients or add them manually, and let our AI suggest delicious recipes you can make!

## Core Features

-   **Google Authentication:** Securely log in using your Google account via a welcoming landing page.
-   **Ingredient Identification via Photo:** Upload a photo of your ingredients, and the AI will identify them for you.
-   **Manual Ingredient Input:** Easily add or remove ingredients from your list.
-   **Recipe Generation:** Get recipe suggestions based on the ingredients you've listed.
-   **Modern User Interface:** Clean and user-friendly interface built with Shadcn/ui and Tailwind CSS.

## Technologies Used

-   Next.js (App Router)
-   TypeScript
-   Tailwind CSS
-   Shadcn/ui
-   Lucide React Icons
-   Firebase Authentication (Google Sign-In)
-   Genkit AI (for ingredient identification and recipe generation)
-   React Hook Form (Implicitly via Shadcn/ui)
-   Zod (for schema validation)

## Getting Started

1.  **Clone the repository:**

    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd <repository-directory>
    ```

2.  **Install dependencies:**

    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

3.  **Set up your environment variables:**

    Create a `.env.local` file in the **root directory** (the same level as `package.json`) and add your Google Generative AI API key and Firebase configuration:

    ```env
    # Genkit AI Key
    GOOGLE_GENAI_API_KEY=YOUR_GENAI_API_KEY

    # Firebase Configuration (Required for Authentication)
    # These MUST be prefixed with NEXT_PUBLIC_ for browser access
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_API_KEY=YOUR_FIREBASE_API_KEY
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=YOUR_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=YOUR_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=YOUR_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=YOUR_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID
    NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_APP_ID=YOUR_FIREBASE_APP_ID
    ```

    *Note: Ensure you have access to a Google AI model compatible with Genkit (like Gemini) and have set up Firebase Authentication with Google provider enabled in your Firebase project settings.*

4.  **Run the development server:**

    You need two terminals for development: one for the Next.js app and one for the Genkit AI flows.

    *Terminal 1: Run Next.js App*
    ```bash
    npm run dev
    ```
    *Important: Make sure you have stopped (`Ctrl+C`) and restarted the server after editing `.env.local`.*

    *Terminal 2: Run Genkit Dev Server (listens for AI flow calls)*
    ```bash
    npm run genkit:dev
    # Or use genkit:watch for auto-reloading on AI flow changes
    # npm run genkit:watch
    ```

    Open [http://localhost:9002](http://localhost:9002) (or the port specified in `package.json`) in your browser to see the application. The Genkit UI (for inspecting flows) usually runs on [http://localhost:4000](http://localhost:4000).

## How to Use

1.  **Visit the App:** Access the application at the development URL (e.g., http://localhost:9002). You will land on the RecipeLens information page.
2.  **Login:** Click the "Sign in with Google" button and follow the prompts in the Google popup window.
3.  **Upload a Photo (Optional):** Once logged in, you'll be redirected to the main app page. Click the file input under "Analyze Ingredients Photo" to select or take a photo of your ingredients using your device's camera or photo library.
4.  **Analyze Photo (If Uploaded):** After selecting a photo, click "Analyze Photo". The AI will identify ingredients from the image and add them to the "Your Ingredients" list.
5.  **Add/Remove Manually:** Type an ingredient in the input box under "Your Ingredients" and click the "+" button or press Enter. Remove ingredients by clicking the "X" next to them.
6.  **Generate Recipes:** Once you have your desired ingredients listed, click "Find Recipes".
7.  **View Recipes:** The AI-generated recipes will appear on the right side, including titles, ingredient lists, and instructions.
8.  **Sign Out:** Click the logout icon in the header to sign out of your account.
